[ENG-11932][docs] add env variables docs (#32722)
expo/expo: docs/pages/tutorial/eas/environment-variables.mdx

---
title: Managing environment variables in EAS
sidebar_title: Managing environment variables in EAS
description: Learn how to use environment variables in EAS from practical examples.
---

import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> In [Environment variables in EAS](/pages/eas/environment-variables) we described concepts related to using environment variables in EAS and differences in handling them by Expo CLI and EAS CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Environment variables in EAS](/pages/eas/environment-variables) we described concepts related to using environment variables in EAS and differences in handling them with Expo CLI and EAS CLI.
```

This guide will show you how to use environment variables in EAS with practical examples.

> In this example we will consider a sample app that fetches data from an API server and uses these common environment variables during the build process and for configuration purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we'll look at a project that fetches data from an API server and uses these common environment variables during the build process and for configuration purposes:
```

> - `EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL` - [`EXPO_PUBLIC_`](/guides/environment-variables/) variable that holds the URL of the API server
> - `NPM_TOKEN` - a variable that holds a build-time secret token for your app, like [`SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`](/guides/using-sentry/#app-configuration) or `NPM_TOKEN`
> - `APP_VARINT` - a variable to select an [app variant](/tutorial/eas/multiple-app-variants/)
> - `GOOGLE_SERVICES_JSON` - a file variable to supply your gitignored `google-services.json` file to the build job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL`: [`EXPO_PUBLIC_`](/guides/environment-variables/) variable that holds the URL of the API server
- `NPM_TOKEN`: a variable that holds a build-time secret token for your app, like [`SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`](/guides/using-sentry/#app-configuration) or `NPM_TOKEN`
- `APP_VARIANT`: a variable to select an [app variant](/tutorial/eas/multiple-app-variants/)
- `GOOGLE_SERVICES_JSON`: a file variable to supply your gitignored `google-services.json` file to the build job
```

> Let's see how we can set up EAS environemnt variables for this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Step label="1">
## Create environemnt variables

> To create environment variables on EAS servers you can use [Environment Variables](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/environment-variables) page on the Expo website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create environment variables on EAS' servers, you can use the [Environment Variables](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/environment-variables) page.
```

If you prefer using the command line, you can use the `eas env:create` command.

For this example let's create the following environment variables:

> - `EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL` with the value `https://staging.my-ap

Reviewer: I think this is unfinished ...
